Add Datadog integration instructions (#325)
spiceai/docs: spiceaidocs/docs/clients/Datadog/index.md

---
title: "Datadog"
sidebar_label: "Datadog"

> description: 'Monitoring Spice instances with Datadog'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'Monitoring Spice with Datadog'
```

> pagination_prev: 'clients/index'

Reviewer: Explicit ordering.

Author: Updated, thank you

pagination_next: null
---

> The Spice runtime metrics could be integrated to Datadog via Spice [Prometheus endpoint](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#text-based-format).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spice can be monitored with [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/) using the [Prometheus metrics endpoint](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#text-based-format).
```

> ## Spice Prometheus endpoint configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Metrics Endpoint Configuration
```

> By default, Prometheus endpoint is running on port `9000`. Review Spice runtime output after it is started to confirm metrics endpoint is correctly displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The metrics endpoint uses port `9000` by default. The metrics endpoint configuration is logged at startup.
```

```bash
2024-07-15T21:48:00.158267Z  INFO spiced: Metrics listening on 127.0.0.1:9000
```

> Use `--metrics` param to configure Prometheus endpoint, for example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pass the `--metrics` parameter to bind to a specific port. For example, to bind to port `9090`:
```

```bash
 spiced --metrics 0.0.0.0:9090
```

or when using Docker:

```Dockerfile
FROM spiceai/spiceai:latest

# Docker configuration ...

> # Run Promeheus metrics exporter on port 9090

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Configure the metrics endpoint on port 9090
```

CMD ["--metrics", "0.0.0.0:9090"]
EXPOSE 9090
```

> Prometheus endpoint could be verified by using HTTP GET request, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration of the metrics endpoint can be verified using a HTTP GET request, for example:
```

```bash
curl http://localhost:9000/metrics

# TYPE spiced_runtime_http_server_start counter
spiced_runtime_http_server_start 1

# TYPE spiced_runtime_flight_server_start counter
spiced_runtime_flight_server_start 1

# TYPE datasets_count gauge
datasets_count{engine="None"} 1
datasets_count{engine="arrow"} 1
...
```

## Datadog Agent configuration

> Prerequisite: [Datadog Agent version 6.5.0 or later is installed](https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/agent/). Datadog Agent supports Prometheus metrics scraping by default, no additional packages are required on host or container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prerequisite: [Datadog Agent version 6.5.0 or later is installed](https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/agent/). The Datadog Agent supports Prometheus metrics scraping by default, no additional packages are required on host or container.
```

> To start collecting Spice runtime metrics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the Datadog Agent to scrape the Spice metrics endpoint:
```

1. Edit the `openmetrics.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent’s configuration directory](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/#agent-configuration-directory):

```yaml
init_config:

instances:
    - prometheus_url: SPICE-METRICS-ENDPOINT>/metrics # for example http://localhost:9000/metrics
      namespace: spice
      metrics:
          - '*'
```

1. [Restart the Agent](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent) to start collecting Spice runtime metrics.
1. Refer to [Prometheus and OpenMetrics metrics collection from a host](https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/guide/prometheus-host-collection/) for all available configuration options and supported parameters.
1. Open Datadog Metrics Explorer and type `spice` to confirm Spice telemetry information is successfully collected.

<img width="800" src="/img/datadog/spice_datadog_metrics_explorer.png"/>

> ## Import Spice.ai Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Import the Spice Datadog Dashboard
```
